[DAL] Data management: corrections of main concepts (#198)
oneapi-src/oneAPI-spec: source/elements/oneDAL/source/data_management/index.rst

  column of the table stored in row-major format as a contiguous array.

- Acquire data in a desired :capterm:`data format` for which
  a specific set of operations is defined.

- Have read-only access to the data.

For details, see :txtref:`accessors` section.

Example of interaction between table and accessor objects
---------------------------------------------------------

This section provides a basic usage scenario of the :txtref:`table` and
:txtref:`accessor` concepts and demonstrates the relations between them.
:txtref:`The following diagram <table_accessor_usage_example>` shows objects
of these concepts, which are highlighted by colors:

- :txtref:`table` object is dark blue

- :txtref:`accessor` is orange

- :txtref:`table_metadata` is light blue

.. _table_accessor_usage_example:

.. image:: _static/table_accessor_usage_example.png
  :width: 800
  :alt: Sequence diagram of accessor-builder-table relations

To perform computations on a dataset, one shall create a :txtref:`table` object
first. It can be done either using a :txtref:`data-source` or directly from
user-defined memory. The diagram shows the creation of a :txtref:`table` object

> `t` from the data provided by user (not shown on a diagram). During a table

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`t` from the data provided by user (not shown on the diagram). During a table
```

- To transfer memory ownership of the data from user application to the table,
  or share it between them.

- To connect with the :txtref:`data-source` to convert data from an
  out-of-memory into an in-memory representation.

- To support streaming of the data to the algorithm.

- To access the underlying data on a device in a required :capterm:`data
  format`, e.g. by blocks with the defined :capterm:`data layout`.

.. note::
  For thread-safety reasons and better integration with external entities, a table
  provides a read-only access to the data within it, thus, table concept
  implementations shall be :capterm:`immutable <immutability>`.

.. warning::

>   Table can represent not a datasets only - it can be a matrix, a vector (if

Reviewer 2: do we want to say that the table represents not only the data, but the result of the data processing in the form of matrix, vector etc?

  number of columns :math:`p = 1`), even a single value.

  When table represent a dataset, the table rows represent dataset observations,
  and columns represent features according to the :txtref:`dataset` definition.

This concept has different logical organization and physical :capterm:`format of
the data <data format>`:

- Logically, a table contains :math:`n` rows and :math:`p` columns.
  Every column may have its own type of data values and set of allowed
  operations on them.

- Physically, a table can be organized in different ways: as a
  :capterm:`homogeneous <homogeneous data>`, :capterm:`contiguous <contiguous
  data>` array of bytes, as a :capterm:`heterogeneous <heterogeneous data>` list
  of arrays of different :capterm:`data types <data type>`, in a

>   compressed-sparse-row format. Physical amount of bytes needed to store the

Reviewer 2: not sure 'physical amount of bytes' would be clean. @outoftardis, pls suggest a better wording

Reviewer: What about "the number of bytes in physical memory"?

  data differ from the number of elements :math:`n \times p` within a table.

For details, see :txtref:`tables` section.

.. _table_metadata:

Table metadata
--------------

Table metadata concept contains an additional information about data into the
table, that is not included into the table itself but can be useful in the

> particular use case.

Reviewer 2: Can be shorter, w/o duplication of words:
Table metadata...into the table:
1. data types of table columns
2....

'When we speak... ' we need a different a bit more formal wording in the specs. We probably want to say that those logical types apply both to cases of data and data processing. Do we need to talk about it in this case?

Author: Rewritten. About logical types - I want to highlight because these types are bound with "feature" term, which applies only for datasets, not matrices. That's why I want to say that it can be generalized on non-dataset cases. Or we need to correct the terms of ordinal/nominal/... features?

> particular use case.

Author: 1. Metadata contains info, not a concept. Replaced with "provides"
2. Yes, in
3. Removed. Can be used in several algorithms like trees.

> 1. Table metadata includes information about :capterm:`data types <Data type>`

Author: Yes, its a type of data

of table columns.

2. Table metadata includes information about logical types of columns:
   :capterm:`nominal <Nominal feature>`, :capterm:`ordinal <Ordinal feature>`,
   :capterm:`interval <Interval feature>`, or :capterm:`ratio <Ratio feature>`.
   Usually we speak about logical types, when the table represents a dataset.
   But this logical type information can be also applied on the other cases,
   e.g. when the table represents a matrix.

.. warning::

>   While extending the table concept, specification implementer should

Reviewer 2: shall distinguish?

  distinguish whether a new property he or she is adding is the property of
  particular ``table`` sub-type or it is a property of table metadata.

  For example, :capterm:`data layout` and :capterm:`data format` are properties
  of table objects since they affect the structure of a table, its contract and
  behavior.

  Logical and physical types of table columns are related strongly to the data

>   in the table and do not affect table concept definition - that's why they are

Reviewer 2: it looks like we explain some rationale/difference between table&metadata. It would be better to briefly discuss it in the def section and do not cover it here

>   Logical and physical types of table columns are related strongly to the data
>   in the table and do not affect table concept definition - that's why they are
>   considered as metadata.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Logical and physical types of table columns are considered metadata since they are
  related strongly to the data in the table and do not affect table concept definition.
```

.. _accessor:

Accessor
--------

> Accessor is a concept that defines a single way to get the data from a

Reviewer 2: extract data?

Reviewer: +1 for extract data

> :txtref:`table`. It allows:

Reviewer 2: It allows to:
- then each bullet does not contain 'to'

- To have unified access to the data from :txtref:`table` objects of different
  types, without exposing their implementation details.

- To convert a variety of numeric :capterm:`data formats <data format>` into a

>   smaller set of formats.

Reviewer 2: why term 'smaller' is important to stress?

Author: The whole sentence is removed since we have two sentences about data format in one block.

- To provide a :capterm:`flat <flat data>` view on the data blocks of a
  :txtref:`table` for better data locality. For example, some accessor

>   implementation returns column values as a contiguous array, while the original

Reviewer 2: do we discuss implementation or spec here? I think spec requires to support accessors that return the data in contiguous memory

Author: It's an example of possible accessor implementation. The previous sentence "Provide a flat  view on the data blocks of a
 table for better data locality" can be considered as a high-level requirement.

Reviewer 2: Some accessor implementation returns as contiguous array-looks ambiguous and can mean the other implementations of the same accessor do not support it
We probably just want to say - for example, the accessor returns a column of the table stored in row-major format as contiguous array 
Also, I saw 'raw-by-raw' in several places - need to double-check and fix

the data <data format>`:

- Logically, a table contains :math:`n` rows and :math:`p` columns.
  Every column may have its own type of data values and a set of allowed
  operations.

- Physically, a table can be organized in different ways: as a
  :capterm:`homogeneous <homogeneous data>`, :capterm:`contiguous <contiguous
  data>` array of bytes, as a :capterm:`heterogeneous <heterogeneous data>` list
  of arrays of different :capterm:`data types <data type>`, in a
  compressed-sparse-row format. The number of bytes needed to store the data
  differ from the number of elements :math:`n \times p` within a table.

For details, see :txtref:`tables` section.

.. _table_metadata:

Table metadata
--------------

Table metadata concept provides an additional information about data in the
table:

1. The `data types <Data type>` of the columns.

2. The logical types of data in the columns:
   :capterm:`nominal <Nominal feature>`, :capterm:`ordinal <Ordinal feature>`,
   :capterm:`interval <Interval feature>`, or :capterm:`ratio <Ratio feature>`.
   Information about logical types is mostly relevant in cases when table

>    columns represent dataset features, but is also applicable in other cases as

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   columns represent dataset features, but it is also applicable in other cases as
```

- Have read-only, read-write and write-only access to the data. Accessor
  implementations are not required to have read-write and write-only access
  modes for :capterm:`immutable <immutability>` entities like
  :txtref:`<table>s`.

For details, see :txtref:`accessors` section.

Example of interaction between table and accessor objects
---------------------------------------------------------

This section provides a basic usage scenario of the :txtref:`table` and
:txtref:`accessor` concepts and demonstrates the relations between them.
:txtref:`The following diagram <table_accessor_usage_example>` shows objects
of these concepts, which are highlighted by colors:

- :txtref:`table` object is dark blue

- :txtref:`accessor` is orange

- :txtref:`table_metadata` is light blue

.. _table_accessor_usage_example:

.. image:: _static/table_accessor_usage_example.png
  :width: 800
  :alt: Sequence diagram of accessor-builder-table relations

To perform computations on a dataset, one shall create a :txtref:`table` object
first. It can be done either using a :txtref:`data-source` or directly from
user-defined memory. The diagram shows the creation of a :txtref:`table` object

> `t` is created from the data provided by user (not shown on a diagram). During a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`t` from the data provided by user (not shown on a diagram). During a
```

the data <data format>`:

- Logically, a table contains :math:`n` rows and :math:`p` columns.
  Every column may have its own type of data values and a set of allowed
  operations.

- Physically, a table can be organized in different ways: as a
  :capterm:`homogeneous <homogeneous data>`, :capterm:`contiguous <contiguous
  data>` array of bytes, as a :capterm:`heterogeneous <heterogeneous data>` list
  of arrays of different :capterm:`data types <data type>`, in a
  compressed-sparse-row format. The number of bytes needed to store the data
  differs from the number of elements :math:`n \times p` within a table.

For details, see :txtref:`tables` section.

.. _table_metadata:

Table metadata
--------------

Table metadata concept provides an additional information about data in the
table:

1. The `data types <Data type>` of the columns.

2. The logical types of data in the columns:
   :capterm:`nominal <Nominal feature>`, :capterm:`ordinal <Ordinal feature>`,
   :capterm:`interval <Interval feature>`, or :capterm:`ratio <Ratio feature>`.
   Information about logical types is mostly relevant in cases when table

>    columns represent dataset features, but it is also applicable in other cases

Reviewer 2: I'd just drop the sentence 'information about ...' as it follows from this sentence that logical types can be used either case

   as well, for example, when a table represents a matrix.

Only the properties of data that do not affect table concept definition shall be
the part of metadata concept.

.. warning::
  While extending the table concept, specification implementer shall distinguish
  whether a new property they are adding is a property of a particular ``table``
  sub-type or a property of table metadata.

  For example, :capterm:`data layout` and :capterm:`data format` are properties
  of table objects since they affect the structure of a table, its contract, and

>   behavior.

Reviewer 2: We give the example of the properties of a table and say nothing about the examples of properties of metadata

.. _accessor:

Accessor
--------

Accessor is a concept that defines a single way to extract the data from a

> :txtref:`table`. It allows to:

Reviewer 2: minor: stylistic part - in this case we have 'to' in this line while in the rest cases above we have 'to' in each bullet. Probable, makes sense to align the rest with this case

- Have unified access to the data from :txtref:`table` objects of different
  types, without exposing their implementation details.

- Provide a :capterm:`flat <flat data>` view on the data blocks of a
  :txtref:`table` for better data locality. For example, some accessor
  implementation returns column values as a contiguous array, while the original

>   table stored row-by-row (there are strides between values of a single

Reviewer 2: do not discuss strides - you defined row-major already and it should be enough

  column).

- Acquire data in a desired :capterm:`data format` for which
  a specific set of operations is defined.

- Have read-only, read-write and write-only access to the data. Accessor

>   implementations are not required to have read-write and write-only access

Reviewer 2: .. are not required to support read-write and write-only access for ..entities such as...

  modes for :capterm:`immutable <immutability>` entities like
  :txtref:`<table>s`.

For details, see :txtref:`accessors` section.

Example of interaction between table and accessor objects
---------------------------------------------------------

This section provides a basic usage scenario of the :txtref:`table` and
:txtref:`accessor` concepts and demonstrates the relations between them.
:txtref:`The following diagram <table_accessor_usage_example>` shows objects
of these concepts, which are highlighted by colors:

- :txtref:`table` object is dark blue

- :txtref:`accessor` is orange

- :txtref:`table_metadata` is light blue

.. _table_accessor_usage_example:

.. image:: _static/table_accessor_usage_example.png
  :width: 800
  :alt: Sequence diagram of accessor-builder-table relations

To perform computations on a dataset, one shall create a :txtref:`table` object
first. It can be done either using a :txtref:`data-source` or directly from
user-defined memory. The diagram shows the creation of a :txtref:`table` object
`t` from the data provided by user (not shown on a diagram). During a table

> creation, an object `tm` of table metadata is created and its content is deduced

Reviewer 2: the diagram uses 'infer', the text uses 'deduce'.
We probably need to say - 'construct metadata' in both diagram and text

from the incoming data.

> Once a table object is created, the data inside it can be accessed by its own

Reviewer 2: I'd swap sentences
Once a table object is created, it can be used as an input...
The data in the table can be accessed via interface provided by the table or via read-only accessor as shown on the diagram

For details, see :txtref:`accessors` section.

Example of interaction between table and accessor objects
---------------------------------------------------------

This section provides a basic usage scenario of the :txtref:`table` and
:txtref:`accessor` concepts and demonstrates the relations between them.
:txtref:`The following diagram <table_accessor_usage_example>` shows objects
of these concepts, which are highlighted by colors:

> - :txtref:`table` object is dark blue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- :txtref:`table` object is dark blue
```

> - :txtref:`accessor` is orange.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- :txtref:`accessor` is orange
```

> - :txtref:`table_metadata` is light blue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- :txtref:`table_metadata` is light blue
```

.. _table_accessor_usage_example:

> .. image:: _static/table_accessor_usage_example.png

Reviewer: comments for the picture:
- remove red way underlines from the pic (right-click on the underlined phrase and click ignore)
- "Constructing **a** table"
- "some" in "some user-defined data" doesn't really add any value/info, you can easily remove it
- "Inferring **the** table metadata"
- "**An** example of direct operations"
-  "Constructing **a** read-only accessor"
- "assures" is not a good choice of wording here
- "The objects' lifetimes"

Author: Thanks, corrected

  :width: 800
  :alt: Sequence diagram of accessor-builder-table relations

To perform computations on a dataset, one shall create a :txtref:`table` object

> first. It can be done using a :txtref:`data-source` or directly from

Reviewer: ```suggestion
first. It can be done either using a :txtref:`data-source` or directly from
```

> user-defined memory. The diagram briefly shows the situation when some
> :txtref:`table` object `t` is created from the data provided by user (not shown

Reviewer: to make it more concise:
```suggestion
user-defined memory. The diagram shows the creation of a
:txtref:`table` object `t` from the data provided by user (not shown
```

> on a diagram). While table creation, object of table metadata `tm` is created

Reviewer 2: while table creation - wording is unclear

Author: rewritten

> on a diagram). While table creation, object of table metadata `tm` is created
> and its content deduced from incoming data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
on a diagram). During a table creation, an object `tm` of table metadata is created
and its content is deduced from the incoming data.
```
